
The only thing to do to learn a language is to read text sentencewise, figure out its meaning, then jump around with your eyes in the sentence as you correlate the words to the meaning in your brain.
The only thing I can see to provide that isn't in the book is some tips on identifying what a word is doing in text so you have somewhere to go from.
All grammatical rules are already detailed in the book in a good order, so this is more a description of consequent insights you might have about the grammar.


Pronouns

I     you  he/she   it   we    you   they
es    tu   vinš/-a  tas  mēs   jūs   viņi

am    are  is       is   are   are   are
esmu  esi  ir       ir   esam  esat  ir

^Arbitrary differences in how the word matrices work in languages.


A statement usually has an identifiable subject noun (nominative form) and main verb.

Es esmu cilvēks. (human)
Tu esi apmierināts. (satisfied)

Ziema ir auksta. (winter, cold)


A description statement only has that form if it's an internal property, in contrast to the English form. Otherwise:

Man ir silti. (warm)
^
Dative of 'es'

There is no subject noun in that statement, the statement is only the 'is warm' adverb. The dative form roughyly means 'for me', as an additional detail of the statement. Because all words have a detailed case indicating what it describes, it often doesn't matter what order the words are in a sentence.

Viņi man deva tēju. (They gave me tea/They 'to me' gave tea)

The subject/verb is 'they gave'.


'Tēju' above is an accusative noun, a case used when the described action is external to the current noun.

Es nopirku tēju. (I bought tea)
Es atradu veikalu. (I found a shop)

The accusative form for 'es' is 'mani':

Mani sauc X. (My name is/I am called X (by others))
Mani pieņēma. (I was accepted (by/to X))


Nominative - subject of statement 'X is/does'
Genitive - posessor of object 'X's Y'
Dative - posessor of happening 'for X, ..'
Accusative - subject of happening 'Y does X'
Instrumental - same sense as accusative, but used in the sense 'does with X'
Locative - locational sense

When reading text you need to be roughly aware which case nouns are in so you can get a sense of when cases are used for a part of sentence.

The cases are written/said by changing the ending letter(s) in a regular way. But there are six classes of nouns with a separate mode of writing the cases. But you can do with the most common one for masculine and feminine nouns. The second feminine is pretty similar.
But here's the most common four:

masc.
I     II
tree  rock
-s    -is      the ending that gets changed
koks  akmenis
koka  akmeņa
kokam akmenim
koku  akmeni
kokā  akmenī

fem.
IV    V
leaf  fir
-a    -e
lapa  egle
lapas egles
lapai eglei
lapu  egli
lapā  eglē

This also applies to people's names. Female names end with vowels with grammatical justification.

There's also plural columns for each class, lol.

Kokā ir lapas. (In tree are leaves)
L.      N.pl.

Blakus akmenim ir egle. (Next to rock is fir)
       D.         N.


Verbs have three tenses by three persons by two pluralities. The tenses can be irregular for the shortest words, while the persons change the ending in a regularish way.

Irregular stem change:

dot give
es   dodu  devu  došu
tu   dod   devi  dosi
viņš dod   deva  dos
mēs  dodam devām dosim
jūs  dodat devāt dosiet
viņi dod   deva  dos

Ultra:

iet go
es   eju  gāju  iešu
tu   ej   gāji  iesi
viņš iet  gāja  ies
mēs  ejam gājām iesim
jūs  ejat gājāt iesiet

Regular:

lasīt read
es   lasu  lasīju   lasīšu
tu   lasi  lasīji   lasīsi
viņš lasa  lasīja   lasīs
mēs  lasām lasījām  lasīsim
jūs  lasāt lasījāt  lasīsiet


Verbs often have a prefix that goes in front of the stem that modifies the sense of the word. The base word often has a continuous sense, and to say you've already done something you use a derived word.

dod - are giving
deva - were giving
iedeva - gave

pērk - is buying
pirku - was buying
nopirku - bought

nāk - is coming
nāca - was coming
atnāca - came

There's about 20 different prefix syllables, each having an vague meaning of direction or action.
Something like English modal verbs. Also en-, de-, re-, un-, over-, under-.


Actually many words are derived from an identifiable common root with pre- and infix syllables.

dzīve       life
dzīvnieks   animal
dzīvoklis   apartment
dzīvība     bio/ethical life

dzīvs       alive
dzīvīgs     lively

dzīvot      to live
uzdzīvot    live it up
iedzīvoties accustom
nodzīvot    live down/wear down
pārdzīvot   grieve

There's like 20+ uses of this root, not counting word combinations or concatenations.

This sort of thing probably makes the latter 75% of words easy to learn.
